I have a Tim physician practice one PA
and for audiologists so basically I've
got 15 providers I get the pleasure of
managing their billing office and their
IT well when I first got to the practice
station collections was our weakest area
and I can recall that one of the staff
when I was talking about doing these
letters was like I don't know why we
would do that and I said well our
patients have been conditioned not to
pay because we have consistently sent
out final notices numerous times so they
no longer know that the final notice is
the final notice so when I told them we
were going to stop doing that we were
going to start having you guys send out
the letter they were like they ignore
our letters what do you think that's
going to do and I said well let's try it
let's see I mean worst case scenario if
they in or if they ignore there's
there's nothing nothing gained nothing
lost the cost to send out the letters is
less than what it costs us so it's fine
three months four months after that that
employee came up to me I had only been
with the practice probably about a year
employee came up to me and said that was
the best thing you've done since you got
here my philosophy was we were spending
time calling patients during business
hours at home that was a waste of our
time one of the things that I valued and
respected the most about this system is
that you now have the ability to have
the patience call you and they call you
from wherever they choose to call you it
doesn't matter anyway that's serious
about paying their bill is going to call
you I'm not I don't have time to waste
my staff's time and energy calling
people to leave a voicemail for them to
dodge the voicemail and then maybe get a
call but when the patients do call back
my staff's gone none of my staff wanted
to stagger an end be in late at night to
answer these phone calls so it's like a
voicemail tag system not effective at
all I want mine staff to work on doing
what they're supposed to do collect the
money there's so many different
variables in healthcare I like the
security of knowing that I'm going to
pay
a set amount for a proven system that
works that gets me paid rather than me
sit there and find out who's going to
take money from you i'm actually now
getting the money that i should have
been getting along but i don't have to
work as hard from my point of view
there's not a practice that i will ever
work in that if i have the decision that
i will not be using a system white Trans
World it is my preferred way of dealing
with patient collections